So let's start with the first work, for example,
where I'm going to show you how to create this wall shader from start to finish
so you can see every step of the way
and I'm still going to explain everything that I do.
Yeah, this wall shader is quite simple for the first one that I show you
and um it basically has two main aspects
to it which is one the general surface structure
and then
there's
gradient towards the edge which makes it look more used.
And the cool thing about that is that
when I changed the scale of this plane,
the effect scales along with it but the structure does not, it's not distorted.
This also works from within the added view as well
as you can see here.
Okay, so let's start by just
deleting this, adding in a new plane
and
looking it up with the standard material.
We're just going to ignore this principle be sdf for now
and take a look at what um
tax records we want to use.
So
as I said with the tax recording space, which should change with the geometry,
I want to use
generated coronets
because these just sticks to the surface as
I want, I want the gradient to appear.
It's just
go back a few steps and
first start with
adding a vector math known
and centering the coordinates by subtracting
0.5
because first the coordinates started going from 0 to 1 on the X and Y axis
and I want to center the origin
towards the middle of the plane.
Now the coordinates go from negative .5 to positive .5 in both directions.
And I'll just add an a multiply known
to make them go from negative 12 positive one by multiplying by 24 X and Y.
And also I'm going to multiply by zero for the component
because I don't want to consider the component at all because this
shader is only going to be for flat surfaces like this.
And then let me add in a absolute note
which as you can already see
as these gradients
on both the X
and the Y axis is going from the center towards the edge.
So I already have both these and I can just split those up by using the separate Xy Xena
and as you can see on the X component we have
this gradient from the center to the edge in the X direction
and in the Y component, the same thing for the for the Y direction.
Now to combine those
into the shape that I need
I can just add in a
math noon
and set that thing to maximum
plug in both X and Y component.
And as you can see already I have this
shape where
depending on which part of the plane I'm in,
I get this gradient towards the edge
which is already looking quite good.
So if I just added a colorado know to control a little bit this gradient
you can see that it has the wanted effect.
Now I do want to smooth out the
edges here because right now they're very harsh and I want to have like uh
certain curvature here on the edges.
So instead of just the maximum node,
I'm going to change that to the smooth maximum node.
And now I have nice full control over the radius of this smoothing here.
All right. And that's already
pretty much the mask for this edge. Taken care of
one thing that I do want to add to this edge
is some kind of variation by adding in a noise texture.
And
just before I apply the colorado operation, I want to add this noise on top.
Yeah,
but I don't want to offset the complete mosque. I just want to
At the noise on top so I need the noise to be centered around zero
And we're due for that. It's just that i subtract .5
as you can see here.
It's all in the positive values, subtracting .5 centuries around zero. Getting
basically have the values into the negative area
and yeah, then I can also add in a multiply known
to scale this effect up and down.
Yeah. And if I add it now,
the overall values don't get uh
offset but just distorted.
And so does the mosque that I get. And you can already see how this is going to
look later on.
I do want to change the scale of this mosque because I think the effect
looks better this way.
Okay,
now let's move on to the overall surface structure.
I'm just going to use another noise texture
And to get a nice effect with this one.
I'm going to crank the roughness all the way up to one
and now I get this nice
shifting of detail
with this slider
without really uh
changing the overall look but rather just the love of detail,
I'm just going to put that to five for now
and yeah, now it's time to actually worry a little bit about the,
about the shading itself.
I'm first going to add in a bump known
to get
to give the whole thing a little bit of
bumpiness
surface structure
and we're just gonna put this into the height input
and connect the normal input to the shader node.
Also,
I'm just going to quickly rotate the plane on the X axis 90
degrees because the wall is going to be standing up straight like this
and there we go. We got those surface structure already.
It's just a little bit
too much, little bit harsh. So I'm going to crack down the distance, way way down
2 0.2
for now
that I also want the
structured to affect the roughness
and to gain some easy control over the minimum and maximum values
that this
roughness is supposed to have. I just added a map range. Known
plug that into the rap roughness here
and then she was like
.7.5.
You can always tweet those settings to what you think looks
best or what you want your plaster to look like.
Okay, so let's finally worry about the actual color map
and my approach for this one is just going to be
a final mix. Known that mixes between the
hi
tone and the low tone on the edge.
Maybe like this
can see later on if that works.
And I'm basically going to use this mosque here.
Still compiling. Here we go.
Now this doesn't look too great. But uh, bear with me.
No, I can just
and called the surface structure as well. And I'm going to do that by using
a
linear light
operation
because that already takes into account that I have a noise texture that is
Centered around .5,
which is essentially the same
thing that I did here
just using this color mix notes. So these operations are basically the same.
This this one is just a little bit more efficient
but takes a little bit more time to set up.
And now the surface structure also informs this
gradient here and it looks a little bit
more fitting
and now you want to just
tweak everything.
Maybe
the contrast of the causes a little bit too much.
But the basic idea works fine.
The one thing that we haven't
taken care of here is that the structure still scale with the plane
and that's because we haven't defined any
coordinates to use here, so it just falls back to the standard coordinates.
But what I want to use here
is something else which is the
global coordinates
in the geometry note.
And as you can see now,
it works just as intended.
And right now
the texture is like a little bit stylized.
If you want something more realistic, you can just crank up the detail level here.
Still not super realistic.
But I thought the shade would be a nice start
for the examples to see the whole workflow.